Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat-hole. 
She knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall. 
How she longed to wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains.
And, even if my head would go through, thought poor Alice, it would be of very little use without my shoulders.
Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope.
I think I could, if I only knew how to begin. 
For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things were really impossible.
This time she found a little bottle on it.
And round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words drink me, beautifully printed on it in large letters.
It was all very well to say drink me, but the wise little Alice was not going to do that in a hurry. 
However, this bottle was not marked poison.
So Alice ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, she very soon finished it off.
They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. 
If you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture in the book and you will see for yourself.
Up, you lazy thing, said the Queen, and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle.
I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered. 
And she walked off, leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon. 
Alice did not quite like the look of the creature because it was large and in charge.
But, on the whole, she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen, so she waited.
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes.
Then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight.
Then it chuckled to itself, what fun, said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance.
Sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock and as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. 
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.
This here young lady, said the Gryphon, she wants to know your history, she do.
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. 
These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by a loud bang in the distance.