The trees are gigantic.
Some trees are light-lovers.
It aids in supporting the tree.
Lath screens are used as shade.
It prevents floods and freshets.
They hold it rigidly in position.
They form a leafy canopy overhead.
They also supply the tree with food.
They have not been managed correctly.
It is baked and dried out by the sun.
Some trees do best in the icy northland.
For a time one species will predominate.
The surface of the soil is usually hard.
These roots are the supports of the tree.
Trees breathe somewhat like human beings.
Some trees are able to grow in the shade.
The game refuges provide such conditions.
The living sapwood surrounds the heartwood.
Each year one ring of this sapwood develops.
They tower 150 to 300 feet above the ground.
In this way, a proper balance is maintained.
Trees run a race in their rapidity of growth.
In every way they fought back the wilderness.
Chlorophyll gives the leaves their green color.
Farther south, the cone-bearing species prevail.
This forest carpet acts like an enormous sponge.
This results because much of the seed is unsound.
Some trees attain large size in a swampy country.
However, these areas are not yet entirely denuded.
For the most part, these farm woodlots are abused.
The early lumbermen wasted our woodland resources.
They take in oxygen and give off carbonic-acid gas.
Heartwood does not occur in all varieties of trees.
Forests are necessary at the headwaters of streams.
Spruce trees may live for many years in dense shade.
In the eastern forests the trees are close together.
Their trunks often are 6 feet or larger in diameter.
Fortunately, a change for the better is now evident.
Its cells are blocked up and prevent the flow of sap.
It never grows higher than a few feet above the ground.
The redwood of California is one of the few exceptions.
Practical experience is the best guide in such matters.
They become weak and die when brought to warm climates.
Next come the stately forests of white and Norway pine.
They make the trees of the eastern forests look stunted.
They develop near or under the large trees of the forest.
Each tree differs from every other one in shape and size.
Even at midday it is as dark as twilight in these forests.
It shifts just as the climate and other conditions change.
The freshets would be followed by periods of water famine.
Destructive lumbering is never practiced in these forests.
California has 22 game refuges in her 17 National Forests.
The distribution of tree families is changing all the time.
These will be developed as future sources of lumber supply.
Such a condition would cause floods after every heavy rain.
If the breeding herds get too small, no hunting is allowed.
For example, the canoe birch at its northern limit is a runt.
Among the cone-bearing trees reproduction by sprouts is rare.
The seeds are sown to a depth of 2 to 3 times their thickness.
As a result, the colonists cut trees as rapidly as they could.
The greater part of our virgin timber has already been felled.
Here it combines with the carbonic-acid gas taken from the air.
This leafy part of the seed finally forms the stem of the tree.
Scientific foresters report that such statements are incorrect.
It flows unimpeded from the higher levels to the river valleys.
Where the elk are protected from hunters they increase rapidly.
Farmers would suffer on account of the lack of irrigation water.
Squirrels are the most industrious foresters in the animal world.
Generally the seeds are sown in the spring between March and May.
The winners get the desirable places in the sunlight and prosper.
It is either used immediately or stored away for future emergency.
However, such blemishes are easy for the trained eye to recognize.
It soaks up the moisture which drops from the trees during a storm.
In time this fear of the forest developed into hatred of the forest.
It can absorb and hold for a time a rainfall of four or five inches.
This gradual supplying of water to the streams regulates their flow.
In the first two of these delicate tissues the wood is actually made.
They will include oak, maple, beech, chestnut, hickory, and sycamore.
The best known of all the inhabitants of the woods are the squirrels.
Trees also give off their excess moisture through the leaves and bark.
Year after year new layers of wood are formed around the first layers.
One can tell the age of a tree by counting the number of annual rings.
In some cases, they are even replanting areas that have been cut over.
In fact, about all these fields are good for is the growing of timber.
Many seeds are carried by the ocean currents to distant foreign shores.
The United States of the future will not be a desert, tree-less country.
Generally speaking, farm lands should not be used for forestry purposes.
In the forests, the tops of the trees catch much of the rain that falls.
Sometimes a few slow-growing hemlock trees appear in the colder sections.
Conditions are very different in a region where forest cover is abundant.
However, immediate measures to save our remaining trees must be developed.
The third layer is responsible for the production of the tough, outer bark.
Then other varieties will appear and displace the ones already established.
They require much more sunlight than others that do well under heavy shade.
If we had no forests, many of these birds and animals would soon disappear.
In our eastern forests the hemlock often follows the white pine in this way.
Oak trees require plenty of light; maples or beeches thrive on little light.
Unless there are forests at the sources of streams and rivers, floods occur.
The amount of rainfall that directly strikes the ground is relatively small.
The plow and harrow have driven the wild life back into the rougher country.
Trees constantly strive among themselves for control of different localities.
Most of the farms have woodlots which provide fuel, fencing, and some lumber.
Some of these virgin lands are valuable for farming purposes, others are not.
The distribution of trees changes very remarkably from one century to another.
Predictions have been made frequently that our woodlands would soon disappear.
The aftermath forests, which succeed the virgin stand, generally are inferior.
After the first year, trees grow by increasing the thickness of the older buds.
Pine and fir seeds are equipped with wings like those of a bird or an airplane.
These activities are constantly changing the type of tree growth in the forest.
These floods would cause great damage in the valleys through which they rushed.
The streams would then be so low that they could not supply the normal demands.
As one travels farther south these give way to little Jack pine and aspen trees.
Trees that do well on the north side require plenty of moisture and cool weather.
In the clear, cold streams of the forests there are many different kinds of fish.
Practical tests have shown that thick sowings of tree seeds give the best results.
Trees of the same kind will become stunted in sections where dry weather persists.
The refuges are under the direction of the Federal and the State game departments.
The trees of the forest grow by forming new layers of wood directly under the bark.
There is little danger of weeds smothering out the seedlings under such conditions.
For example, in some sections, the red and black oaks are replacing the white oaks.
Where trees are exposed to strong winds, they develop deep and strong root systems.
The most abundant game animals of forest regions are deer, elk, antelope and moose.
There are more than 11,640,648 acres of forest land in the government game refuges.
Whenever a surplus accumulates, the state permits hunters to shoot some of the elk.
Strange though it may seem, trees fight with each other for a place in the sunlight.
The losers develop into stunted trees that often die, due to lack of light exposure.
The inner side of the middle layer produces new wood while the outer side grows bark.
In many cases they grow almost as large and high as the huge trees that they replace.
Differences of climate have largely influenced tree growth and types in this country.
Such trees are much stronger and sturdier than those that grow in a sheltered forest.
Thoughtless lumbermen have pillaged millions of acres of our most productive forests.
The leaves, twigs, branches and trunks of the trees also soak up considerable moisture.
The water, containing salts, which is gathered by the roots is brought up to the leaves.
For example, in the extreme northern districts the spruce and the balsam fir are native.
As a result, these Western forests do not shade the ground as well as those in the east.
Our supplies of ash, black walnut and hickory, once abundant, are now seriously limited.
These second-growth stands will never approach in value or quality the original forests.
On the other hand, some forest lands can be profitably cleared and used for agriculture.
The crown is the place where the food is digested and the regeneration of trees effected.
They excel their mates in growth because at all times they are exposed to plenty of light.
Then finally, when they have access to plenty of light they may develop into sturdy trees.
In the regions drained by these streams the run-off water is not absorbed as it should be.
In a treeless country, the rise of the streams is a very accurate measure of the rainfall.
Partridge, grouse, quail, wild turkeys and other game birds are plentiful in some regions.
Trees will adapt themselves to the light and moisture conditions to which they are exposed.
As the speed of the stream increases its power to steal soil and carry it off is increased.
The sapwood really acts as a pipe line to carry water from the roots to the top of the tree.
Gradually the shade-loving trees will replace the light-loving trees in such a forest stand.
Increase in height and density of crown cover is due to the development of the younger twigs.
Even on the opposite slopes of the same mountain the types of trees are often very different.
It is our duty to handle the forests in the same way that fertile farming fields are managed.
He understands that the ability of the forest to regulate stream flow is of great importance.
In a denuded district no natural obstacles impede the raindrops as they patter to the ground.
They protect the young seedlings from the sun just as the parent trees would do in the forest.
The appearance of Jack Frost means death to most of the trees that come from near the equator.
The presence of these many birds and animals adds greatly to the attractiveness of the forest.
Maple seeds fly by means of double-winged sails which carry them far afield before they settle.
As a rule, the wind plays a prominent part in distributing seed in every section of the country.
They made the same mistakes as everyone else in the care and protection of our original forests.
The stealing of soil by erosion occurs where run-off waters are not obstructed by forest growth.
Thereafter it is customary to transplant the young trees at least once again during damp weather.
This causes the soils of these forests to be much drier, and also increases the danger from fire.
Even the different trees of the same family often strive with one another for light and moisture.
Because it takes up so much moisture and plant food, sapwood rots much more quickly than heartwood.
In sheltered regions the seeds of trees may fall, sprout and take root close to their parent trees.
They are followed in the march toward the Gulf of Mexico by the tropical trees of southern Florida.
The water that finally reaches the ground sinks into the soil and is evaporated or runs off slowly.
New growth on the tree is spread evenly between the wood and bark over the entire body of the plant.
In some of our largest trees the moisture is raised as high as 300 feet or more through the sapwood.
But trees may produce plenty of seed and yet fail to maintain their proper proportion in the forest.
They are placed close enough in the drill so that from 12 to 15 seedlings to the linear foot result.
Even in the Mississippi Valley and the Great Lakes belts there are still large areas of forest land.
In some parts of the United States forestry experts can tell where they are by the local tree growth.
The irrigation farmers also desire a regular flow, evenly distributed, throughout the growing season.
Birds also scatter tree seed here, there, and everywhere over the forests and the surrounding country.
Frequently it takes weeks and even months for all the waters of a certain rain to reach these streams.
Predatory animals, such as wolves, bears, mountain lions, coyotes and bobcats also live in the forest.
Otherwise they would become waterlogged during periods when the water is rising rapidly from the roots.
If oak, maple, poplar, or other broad-leaved trees grow in that region, they occur in scattered stands.
In the forests of the Rockies the evergreens stand some distance apart so that their tops do not touch.
There are only a few districts in the country which probably will never again support much tree growth.
The farm woodlot owners are coming to appreciate the importance of protecting the trees for future use.
Ash seeds have peculiar appendages which act like a skate-sail in transporting them to distant sections.
Some farmers and land owners are now interested in setting out hardwood forests for commercial purposes.
Others that are accustomed to tropical weather fail to make further growth when exposed to extreme cold.
The moisture needs of different trees are as remarkable as their likes and dislikes for warmth and cold.
If one continues his journey toward the equator he will next pass through forests of broad-leaved trees.
In torrents it rushes down the stream beds, like sheets of water flowing down the steep roof of a house.
This first layer finally develops into heartwood, which, so far as growth is concerned, is dead material.
When trees are grown in nurseries, the practice is to sow the seed in special beds filled with rich soil.
The same tree, if it grows in the shade, will reach a greater height but will have a small compact crown.
Some of them have changed their policies and are now doing all in their power to aid forest conservation.
The Federal and some State governments now employ professional hunters to trap and shoot these marauders.
In some cases, it will break from its ordinary course to flood exposed fields and to carry away more soil.
After the seed has germinated the beds may be thinned so that the seedlings will have more room to develop.
The trees that are blown down in the forest provide space for the introduction and growth of new varieties.
For example, settlers are felling trees and fighting stumps in northern Wisconsin, Michigan, and Minnesota.
The available supplies of rainwater which are needed for the thirsty crops would be wasted as flood waters.
In the region where forests are frequent, an ordinary rain is scarcely noticed in its effect on the stream.
The upper layer of the forested ground consists of a network of shrubs, and dead leaves, branches, and moss.
Engineers report that the carrying power of a stream is increased 64 times when its rate of flow is doubled.
The body of the tree acts as a passage way through which the food and drink are conveyed to the top or crown.
This process of wood production resembles a factory enterprise in which three layers of material are engaged.
Sprightly trees that shoot skyward at a swift pace are the ones that develop into the monarchs of the forest.
In many sections of the country our forests are now so reduced that they are of little commercial importance.
It is an economic necessity that all lands in this country best suited for farming purposes should be tilled.
Beech and chestnut trees and others of the broad-leaved type reproduce by means of sprouts as well as by seed.
Many of our lumbermen now appreciate the need of preserving and protecting our forests for future generations.
Towns and cities that depended on the mountain streams for their water supplies would be handicapped severely.
Trees breathe constantly, but they digest and assimilate food only during the day and in the presence of light.
On the other hand, oak, hickory, and chestnut trees produce heavy seeds which generally remain where they fall.
In different sections of the elk country, a count is made every few years on the breeding animals in each band.
Those that prosper on south exposures are equipped to resist late and early frosts as well as very hot sunshine.
In Kentucky, which is a centre of the broad-leaved belt, there are several hundred different varieties of trees.
The pitch pine of the Eastern States produces many sprouts, few of which live and develop into marketable timber.
The colonists feared the forests because they sheltered the hostile Indians who lurked near the white settlements.
Uncle Sam is paying special attention to the western water-sheds which supply reclamation and irrigation projects.
They enable the seeds to fly long distances on the wind before they drop to the ground and are covered with leaves.
The pods of the locust tree fall on the frozen ground or snow crust and are blown long distances from their source.
During the fall of the same year, or in the following spring, the seedlings should be transplanted to nursery rows.
A better quality of lumber results from tall straight trees than that produced by the symmetrical, branching trees.
The weaker, spindly trees of the forest, which are slow growers, often are smothered out by the more vigorous trees.
In order to hasten the sprouting of the seeds, some planters soak them in cold water for several days before sowing.
The seedlings that like shade will develop under such conditions while those that need light will pine away and die.
There are large tracts of sandy, rocky and swampy land in these districts that are satisfactory for tree production.
That is why settlers in irrigated districts are deeply interested in the cutting of timber in the Federal woodlands.
Sportsmen are so numerous and hunting is so popular, that game refuges have to be provided in the forests and parks.
The popular practice is to sow the seed in drills about 2 to 3 feet apart so that horses may be used for cultivation.
In its place has been substituted a system of management that assures the continued preservation of the forest-cover.
They and their children's children have worked so effectively that the original wealth of woodlands has been depleted.
The cells of the plant that are rich in chlorophyll have the power to convert carbonic-acid gas into carbon and oxygen.
Sometimes, because of the interruption of normal growth, two false rings may be produced instead of a single true ring.
Private owners and farmers are coming slowly to realize the grave importance of preserving and extending our woodlands.
Our original forests which bordered the Atlantic coast line when America was first settled, were dense and impenetrable.
Several of the States, including New York and Pennsylvania, have purchased large areas of timberlands for State forests.
They produce large and strong trunks that can bend and resist violent winds which sway and twist them in every direction.
A large number of cities and towns have purchased and are maintaining municipal or communal forests for this very reason.
Under the most favorable conditions in Florida, where this species thrives, such trees often tower to a height of 125 feet.
It is preferable that they should produce farm crops instead of tree crops if the land is best adapted to agricultural use.
It floods the river courses with so much water that they burst their banks and pour pell-mell over the surrounding country.
The acorns and other nuts that the squirrels live upon are examples of the food that the forest provides for its residents.
Trees are held upright in the soil by means of roots which reach to a depth of many feet where the soil is loose and porous.
This process of growth may continue until the annual layers amount to 50 or 100, or more, according to the life of the tree.
Through delicate hairs on the roots, they absorb soil moisture and plant food from the earth and pass them along to the tree.
The spring uprisings of the Mississippi, Ohio and Missouri Rivers are due largely to the lack of forests at their headwaters.
When living tree seeds are exposed to proper amounts of moisture, warmth and air in a fertile soil, they will sprout and grow.
Such seeds as the elms and soft maples, which ripen in the early summer, are sown as soon as possible after they are gathered.
The usual practice is to keep the seedlings one year in the seedbed and two years in the nursery rows before they are set out.
The National Forests aid greatly in conserving and making available for use the precious limited rainfall of the arid regions.
A tree that is a pigmy in one locality may rank as a giant in another region due to different conditions of growth and climate.
The seedbeds are kept well cultivated and free of weeds so that the seedlings may have the best opportunities for rapid growth.
In the case of such hard-coated seed as the black locust or honey locust, it is best to soak them in hot water before planting.
At present, cleared fields and cutover areas abound in regions that at one time were covered with magnificent stands of timber.
Their denuded condition is due largely to the destruction of the neighboring mountain forests and to the activities of erosion.
The public, the State and the Nation are now solidly behind the movement to improve our forestry and to safe-guard our forests.
Our ever-increasing population demands that every acre of land useful for growing crops should be cleared and devoted to farming.
The power of the trees and forest soil to absorb water regulates the rate at which the rainfall is fed to the streams and rivers.
They kill much livestock each year in the mountain regions of the Western States and they also prey on some species of bird life.
They are excelled in size only by the mammoth redwood trees of northern California and the giant Sequoias of the southern Sierras.
Whether the transplanting should take place during the spring or fall depends largely on the climate and geography of the locality.
Over large areas, poplar, white birch, and Jack pine trees now predominate on lands which formerly bore dense stands of white pine.
The greatest blame for the wasting of our lumber resources rests with the State and Federal authorities who permitted the depletion.
Millions of little seedlings, however, start to grow in the forest each year, but only a small number survive and become large trees.
Generally, the young stumps of broad-leaved trees produce more sprouts than the stumps of older trees which have stood for some time.
A tree that has access to plenty of moisture and sunlight grows evenly from the ground to its top with a bushy, wide-spreading crown.
The portion that is absorbed by the soil is taken up by the roots of the trees and plants or goes to supply springs and watercourses.
One of the chief reasons for the establishment of the National Forest was to preserve the natural conditions favorable to stream flow.
The air enters the tree through the leaves and small openings in the bark, which are easily seen in such trees as the cherry and birch.
In some cases, where both heartwood and sapwood appear, it is difficult to distinguish between them as their colors are so nearly alike.
In many places, scrubby underbrush and stunted trees occupy lands which heretofore have been heavy producers of marketable timber trees.
Were it not for these havens of refuge where hunting is not permitted, some of our best known wild game and birds would soon be extinct.
The leaves contain a material known as chlorophyll, which, in the presence of light and heat, changes mineral substances into plant food.
Running streams and rivers carry seeds uninjured for many miles and finally deposit them in places where they sprout and grow into trees.
Each year the hunters kill thousands of predatory animals, thus saving the farmers and cattle and sheep owners many thousands of dollars.
Under the action of chlorophyll and sunlight these substances are split up, the carbon, oxygen and hydrogen being combined into plant food.
These cells combine the carbon and the soil water into chemical mixtures which are partially digested when they reach the crown of the tree.
The stream or river which is flooded by these rushing waters roars down its narrow channel, tearing loose and undermining the jutting banks.
The forests of western Washington and Oregon, unlike most timberlands of the Rocky Mountain Region, are as dense as any forests in the world.
The trees break the force of the rain drops, and the forest floor, acting as a large sponge, absorbs rainfall and prevents run-off and floods.
New Mexico has 19, while Montana, Idaho, Colorado, Washington and Oregon also have set aside areas of government forest land for that purpose.
Trees are as queer in picking out places to live and in their habits of growth as are the peoples of the various races which inhabit the world.
Campaigns are now under way to increase tree planting and develop the production of lands adapted for forestry which previously have been idle.
Each year they bury great quantities of tree seeds in hoards or caches hidden away in hollow logs or in the moss and leaves of the forest floor.
When the trees finally are robust and vigorous and have reached the age of two to five years, they are dug up carefully and set out permanently.
Livestock is sometimes grazed on game refuges, but only in small numbers, so that plenty of grass will be left for the support of the wild game.
In many states the wild game birds and fur-bearing animals of the forests are protected by closed seasons during which hunting is not permitted.
Cottonwood seeds have downy wings which aid their flight, while basswood seeds are distributed over the country by means of parachute-like wings.
The less fortunate trees, that are more stocky and sturdy, and less speedy in their climb toward the sky, are killed out in large numbers each year.
Careful observation and measurements have shown that unforested regions will discharge rain water at least twice as fast as will forested districts.
That is to say, they should be so treated that they will yield a profitable money crop every year without reducing their powers of future production.
When the giants of the woodland die, these smaller trees, which previously were shaded, develop rapidly as a result of their freedom from suppression.
The snow becomes very deep in the mountains in the winter and the wild animals could not get food were it not for the game refuges in the low country.
If one journeys west from the Mississippi River across the Great Plains he finally will come to the Rocky Mountains, where evergreen trees predominate.
It is not in condition to absorb or retain much of the run-off water, consequently, the rain water finds little to stop it as it swirls down the slopes.
In a thousand and one ways, a deficient water supply due to forest depletion would cause hardships and suffering in the regions exposed to such misfortune.
The protection afforded by forests on the water-sheds of streams furnishing the domestic water supply for cities and towns is becoming more fully realized.
Many floods which occur in the United States occur because we have cut down large areas of trees which formerly protected the sources of streams and rivers.
Silt, sand, and every other kind of soil are swept from their natural positions and spritted away by the foaming waters as they surge down the steep slopes.
Under ordinary conditions, natural reforestation will maintain a satisfactory tree growth on lands where a practical system of forest protection is practiced.
It is realized that birds and animals are not only of interest to visitors to the forests, but that they, as well as the trees, are a valuable forest product.
If they do not wish to purchase their seedlings from a reliable nursery-man, they can grow them from carefully selected seed planted in well-prepared seedbeds.
The forests of our country are the home and breeding grounds of hundreds of millions of birds and game animals, which the forests provide with food and shelter.
This is because so many of the seedlings are destroyed by forest fires, cattle and sheep grazing, unfavorable soil and weather conditions, and many other causes.
The decay of leaves and woodland vegetation forms rich and fertile soils in the forests, in which conditions are favorable for the development of new tree growth.
The seed of trees requiring little light may be scattered in a dense forest together with that of trees which need plenty of daylight in order to make normal growth.
If the forests were destroyed by cutting or fire many of the brooks and rivers would either dry up or the water would become so low that thousands of fish would die.
Formerly, these mixed forests covered vast stretches of country which today support only a scant crop of young trees which will not be ready for market for many years.
A root develops which pushes its way down into the soil, while the leaf-bud of the plant, which springs from the other end of the seed, works its way upward toward the light and air.
In establishing a game refuge, it is necessary to pick out a large area of land that contains enough good feed for both the summer and winter use of the animals that will inhabit it.
This means that some of the surplus animals have to be killed, otherwise, the elk would soon be so numerous that they would seriously interfere with the grazing of domestic livestock.
The complete removal of the forest is now accomplished only in fertile farming regions, where the agricultural value of the land is too high to permit it to remain longer in forest cover.
A grave danger that threatens western farming is that some time in the future the greater part of the vegetation and forest cover on the watersheds of that section may entirely disappear.
That is why every forester who sets out trees tries to provide conditions which will make them grow tall and with the smallest possible covering of branches on the lower part of the trunks.
The ability of a properly managed forest to produce new crops of trees year after year promises us a future supply of wood sufficient for all our needs if only we will conserve our timberlands as they deserve.
The division of the range country into small farms and the raising of all kinds of crops have, it is claimed, done more to decrease our herds of antelope, elk, deer and other big game than have the rifles of the hunters.
Even where a satisfactory supply of sound fertile seed is produced, it does not follow that the trees of that variety will be maintained in the forest, as the seed supply may be scattered in unfavorable positions for germination.
The forests include 1266 irrigation projects and 325 water-power plants, in addition to many other power and irrigation companies which depend on the Government timberlands for water conservation and the regulation of rain water run-off and stream flow.
If the flow of a river is speeded up ten times, this raging torrent will be able to carry one million times as much foreign material as it did when it was flowing at a normal rate of speed, causing inexpressible damage and destruction of life and property.
Under such conditions, the settlers should reserve sufficient woodlands for their home needs, carefully distinguishing between the land that is best for agricultural purposes and the land that is best for forestry purposes, and thus doubling their resources.
The important part which forests play in the development of our country is shown by the fact that from the streams of the National Forests over 700 western cities and towns, with an aggregate population of nearly 2,500,000, obtain their domestic water supply.
In the Yellowstone National Park country great bands of elk come down from the mountains during severe winters and have to be fed on hay to keep them from starving, as there is not sufficient winter range in this region to supply food for the thousands of elk.
In the process of digestion and assimilation they give off oxygen in abundance, but they retain most of the carbonic acid gas, which is a plant food, and whatever part of it is not used immediately is stored up by the tree and used for its growth and development.
To perpetuate game animals and game birds, it is not enough to pass game laws and forbid the shooting of certain animals and birds except at special times of the year; it is also necessary to provide good breeding grounds for the birds and animals where they will not be molested or killed.