We refuse to find delight in holy things, and let the mind brood in sad pessimism on unholy things.
All these evil psychic moods must be conquered by strong effort of will.
This rending of the veils will reveal to us something of the grace and peace which are of the interior consciousness of the spiritual man.
Or peace may be reached by the even sending forth and control of the life-breath.
Faithful, persistent application to any object, if completely attained, will bind the mind to steadiness.
We are still considering how to overcome the wavering and perturbation of the psychic nature, which make it quite unfit to transmit the inward consciousness.
We are once more told to use the will, and to train it by steady and persistent work: by "sitting close" to our work, in the phrase of the original.
As also will a joyful, radiant spirit.
There is no such illusion as gloomy pessimism, and it has been truly said that a man's cheerfulness is the measure of his faith.
Gloom, despondency, the pale cast of thought, are very amenable to the will.
Sturdy and courageous effort will bring a clear and valorous mind.
Or the purging of self-indulgence from the psychic nature.
We must recognize that the fall of man is a reality, exemplified in our own persons.
We have quite other sins than the animals, and far more deleterious; and they have all come through self-indulgence, with which our psychic natures are soaked.
As we climbed down hill for our pleasure, so must we climb up again for our purification and restoration to our former high estate.
The process is painful, perhaps, yet indispensable.
Or a pondering on the perceptions gained in dreams and dreamless sleep.
For the Eastern sages, dreams are, it is true, made up of images of waking life, reflections of what the eyes have seen and the ears heard.
Much of poetry and art is such a solace from dreamland.
Or meditative brooding on what is dearest to the heart.
Two directions for this may be suggested: the pure love of the artist for his work, and the earnest, compassionate search into the hearts of others.
Thus he masters all, from the atom to the Infinite.
Newton was asked how he made his discoveries.
By intending my mind on them, he replied.
This steady pressure, this becoming one with what we seek to understand, whether it be atom or soul, is the one means to know.
When we become a thing, we really know it, not otherwise.
Therefore live the life, to know the doctrine; do the will of the Father, if you would know the Father.
This is a fuller expression of the last Sutra, and is so lucid that comment can hardly add to it.
Everything is either perceiver, perceiving, or the thing perceived; or, as we might say, consciousness, force, or matter.
The sage tells us that the one key will unlock the secrets of all three, the secrets of consciousness, force and matter alike.
When the consciousness, poised in perceiving, blends together the name, the object dwelt on and the idea, this is perception with exterior consideration.
For example, in coming to the study of a book, we think of the author, his period, the school to which he belongs.
They get at the very life of what they study and paint.
We are still considering external, visible objects.
These stages of perception are described in this way, to lead the mind up to an understanding of the piercing soul-vision of the spiritual man, the immortal.
The same two steps, when referring to things of finer substance, are said to be with, or without, judicial action of the mind.
We now come to mental or psychical objects: to images in the mind.
It is precisely by comparing, arranging and superposing these mind-images that we get our general notions or concepts.
Subtle substance rises in ascending degrees, to that pure nature which has no distinguishing mark.
Or we may illustrate this principle thus.
The highest riches are possessed by all pure souls, only when united.
Thus we rise from separation to true individuality in unity.
The above are the degrees of limited and conditioned spiritual consciousness, still containing the seed of separateness.
The spiritual man has yet to come completely to consciousness as himself, in his own realm, the psychical veils laid aside.
When pure perception without judicial action of the mind is reached, there follows the gracious peace of the inner self.
All these are far advanced on the way; they have drawn near to the secret dwelling of peace.
In that peace, perception is unfailingly true.
The poet, the wise philosopher and the saint not only reach a wide and luminous consciousness, but they gain certain knowledge of substantial reality.
When we know, we know that we know.
For we have come to the stage where we know things by being them, and nothing can be more true than being.
We rest on the rock, and know it to be rock, rooted in the very heart of the world.
The distinction is a luminous and inspiring one.
The Scriptures teach general truths, concerning universal spiritual life and broad laws, and inference from their teaching is not less general.
But the spiritual perception of the awakened Seer brings particular truth concerning his own particular life and needs.
He receives defined, precise knowledge, exactly applying to what he has at heart.
He thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts.